EVALUATION FUNCTIONS:

1) material Score ✔

2) Center square control ✔

3) Check ✔

4) maximum square control 

5) eval function should also consider moves gaining tempo #unsopported piece attack

6) kings safety 

7) score modification based on pawn structure - isolated pawns, doubled pawns, passed pawns

8) some tactical ideas - forks, pins, 

9) some other key features while analysing a position - connecting rooks, rooks on seventh rank, connectivity of peices, king's distance to center

10) piece position : modification to square control is that piece can be better at center even if it controls 2-3 less square than before but is placed in central squares

11) Rooks belong to open files

connectivity: 
The connectivity is the measure of connectedness between the pieces of
a side. Moreover, it states in what amount the pieces of a side(except
for the king) are defended by other pieces. Thus, a piece has no connectivity if it is not defended by any piece, has low connectivity if it is
covered by, for instance, one other piece and has high connectivity if it
is covered by many other pieces.
It differs on the type of position if it is better to have high connectivity or low connectivity. It also differs on the type of player, positional
players normally play with high connectivity and tacticians will prefer
to play positions with low connectivity.

Transposition table
Dynamic depth


Quiescence Search:
It is useful to use quiescence search to be able to make a good estimate
of the evaluation value for a position. A position is only evaluated if
there are no direct threats. Otherwise, the search-depth for a branch
in the search tree is increased. Positions in which e.g., a piece can be
captured or a side is in check are searched deeper to produce a more
trustworthy evaluation score.



some more tips - 
1. score adjustment for forward pawns (+0.1 for each square the pawn is advanced)
2. score adjustment for forward knights (+0.1 for each square the knight is advanced)
3. penalize knights for on the side of the board
4. score adjustment for bishop with open diagonal
5. score adjustment for castled king, protected king in early and mid game
6. score adjustment for open file for rooks
7. score adjustment for strong pawn structure
    7.a (-0.1) for doubled pawns, isolated pawns
    7.b (-0.1) * no of pawn islands (if greater than 2)
8. penalize if queen move when 3 minor piece are at backrank (unless necessary)
9. penalize if a piece is blocking own central pawns(before 4th rank)
10. penalize if moved same piece twice when not 2 or more piece are undeveloped